Launching an HTTP server with spring boot is very easy.
How easy is it?
Just add a dependency called spring web.
In this lesson, you will launch an HTTP server.
The Spring Web dependency launches an HTTP server.
A dependency refers to a packaged library of files, i.e. jar files that your application can use.
Now the spring web dependency.
What it's going to do is bootstrap an HTTP server.
If you open your XML file there, you will find two dependencies.
These dependencies are common to every spring boot application.
Now the spring web dependency.
What it's going to do is instrument our spring boot application to launch an HTTP server, essentially
making our app a web app.
So in a Google search type.
Spring boot web dependency.
And we're going to click on the Central Maven Repository.
The Central Maven repository contains all of the dependencies that we can leverage in a spring boot
up.
Choose the Spring Boot Web version that matches your spring boot application.
In my case, it's 2.6.7.
Copy the dependency.
And paste it into your PubMed XML file.
And now actually what I want you to do is remove the version number because you'll notice that on top
the version number for all spring boot starters is already specified.
So all of these starter dependencies are automatically going to have a version of 2.6.7.
And by virtue of just adding the spring web dependency, it's going to embed an HTTP server called Tomcat
into your spring boot application.
And by default, the HTTP server is going to run on Port 8080.
So let's run our application to see this in action.
Wrong command.
Maven.
Clean spring boot run.
And here you can see the HTTP server is running on Port 8080.
Let's revisit the client server model.
The client server model is different when you're developing the application.
In the previous lesson, the model portrays a client that makes a request via the internet.
An HTTP server is inside of a machine.
Inside of a computer.
On the other side of the world, it receives the request and it responds.
In our case, your browser and HTTP server are inside of the same computer.
So what should your IP address be?
120 7.0.0.1.
This is called a loopback address.
It connects the request of the computer that you're using.
The Loopback address 120 7.0.0.1 essentially loops the request back to your computer.
The request is made on point 8080.
So then your computer, upon receiving the request from your browser, forwards it to port 8080.
Your application's HTTP server is running on that port and it receives the request.
So now from your browser, what you're going to do is write 120 7.0.0.1 so that the request is routed
to your computer and then write 8080 because our app is listening on port 8080.
And we get the generic white label error page.
That's because the application's HTTP server receives the request.
But you didn't write any code that tells Spring how to respond, so it sends back the default error
page.
Now before we fix this issue, I just want to emphasize that writing 120 7.0.0.1 has really annoying
local host translates to this address.
So instead we can write local host.
8080.
And in similar fashion, local host is going to route the request to the computer that you're using.
And in turn, your computer is going to forward the request to Port 88 where your application is listening,
and our application responds to the request by returning a white label error page.
Let's fix it.
The next step when we make a request on local host 8080 is for the HTTP server to send back a static
web page.
The static folder, as discussed in the previous lesson, is what contains static web content.
The next step is to send back a static web page, but you'll notice that the resources is missing the
static folder, as well as the templates folder that we talked about in the previous lesson.
The reason why is because we didn't initially add the spring web dependency upon generating the project
using the spring initial riser.
So for now, we'll have to create the folder ourselves.
We'll say new.
Directory and we'll call it static.
Please make sure to get the naming right.
Do not capitalize anything.
Do not add a period at the end.
It has to be just static.
The static folder is where you should put static web content.
Examples include images, logos, CSS or static HTML content in order to send the client a static web
page.
We're going to add an indexed HTML file, so create a new HTML file and call it index dot HTML.
It already creates a template for us, which is really nice.
Now, as a spring boot developer, I don't expect you to know any HTML.
All I want you to know is the metadata goes here and visual elements go here.
We're not too concerned with metadata at the moment.
All we want to do is display a simple header with the H1 tag.
And the header is going to say Hello Spring.
So what each one is going to do is it's going to populate a web page with a big header that reads whatever
string you provide.
One thing I want to stress before we do anything is that it's really important that you name the file
indexed HTML when Spring Boot is responding to an incoming request.
By default, it looks for the index of the HTML file.
So now what we can do is stop our runtime using the command control c.
We run the application.
Our app is listening on port 1880, so we'll make a request to local host 8080.
And the HTTP server responds with a big header that says Hello Spring.
The client sends a request to Port 1880.
The Springwood Application's HTTP server listing on that port receives the request.
Spring looks for the indexed HTML file and responds with it.
The HTML file populates the browser with Hello Spring.
Now you can change the port that Tomcat runs on.
You can choose the port to where your app should listen for requests.
And so recall that application DOT Properties is the file where you can configure the settings for your
application.
What you're going to do is right server dot port and set it equal to 1990.
To change the default port.
We run the application.
Now the app is listening for requests on point 1990.
So if you try sending a request to Port 8080, there is nothing listening on that port.
The application's Tomcat server is running on Port 99, so you must send the request there.
Beautiful.
All right.
To recap, you launched an HTTP server using spring boots.
First you added the spring web dependency.
The spring web dependency starts up an embedded HTTP server called Tomcat, and by default, the HTTP
server listens for requests on Port 8080.
Inside the Application Properties file, you can figure the web server to listen on Port 1990.
So your full address is local host 1990.
Such that local host loops a browser's request to your machine and then your machine, upon receiving
the request, forwards it to port 1990 where your spring boots HTTP server happens to be listening.
Spring Boot looks through the index of the HTML file and responds with it.
The HTML we sent back populates the browser with a big header that says Hello Spring.